Jtesar/chapter1 web console install (#1)
RedHatQuickCourses/rhods-admin: modules/chapter1/pages/section1.adoc

= Installation using the Web Console
 

> *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Data Science* is installed as an operator. As a dependecy it requires the *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines* operator to be installed as well.

Reviewer: You might also mention (maybe as a note) that if they are planning to use GPUs, they must have the NVIDIA GPU operator installed too.

> == Installation of the Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines operator

Reviewer 2: Please see how Jaime is structuring the sections in the first intro course. Add 2 or 3 paragraphs about the context for the exercise.You can talk about the following things mentioned in the design doc

- [Trevor] - This seems to focus on the self-managed install but doesn't talk at all about the managed service.  The difference between the two should be discussed somewhere in the training. Introduce the different ways you can install the product - CLI, web console etc. Talk about how different self managed is compared to managed RHODS. Separate product docs exist for the AWS managed version of the product. You can say this is out of scope for this course and that we will only cover self managed.
- Provide warnings about not choosing the community upstream OpenDataHub operators
- [Trevor] RHODS includes other dependencies outside of OpenShift Pipelines.  For GPU we require the NVIDIA GPU Operator, and the Node Feature Discovery Operator.

> 

Reviewer 2: See and talk to Jaime about splitting this section into a separate sub-sections called "Exercise: Installing RHODS using the web console" and another sub-section called "Installing RHODS using the CLI". A third sub-section called "Troubleshooting" can be added. Finally, add a References section and provide links to all product docs etc plus any code and scripts you have written for CLI install. Provide links to appropriate scripts/code repo

Reviewer 2: Ignore my comment about separate sub section  for CLI install. I notice that you have added a separate section which is the better approach because of the length of the exercise. But please add a Troubleshooting and References section

1. Login to Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift using a user which has the cluster-admin role assigned.

> 2. Navigate to **Operators** -> **OperatorHub** and seach for *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines*

Reviewer: (adoc) There is a menu macro that you can use for this kind of navigation

```suggestion
2. Navigate to menu:Operators[OperatorHub] and search for *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines*.
```

https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/macros/ui-macros/#menu-macro-syntax

Reviewer: To use the menu macro, you must activate the `experimental` attribute in the project, like I did here https://github.com/RedHatQuickCourses/rhods-intro/blob/main/antora-playbook.yml#L11

+
image::pipeline_search.png[width=800]

3. Click on the Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Pipelines operator and in the pop up window click on **Install** to open the operator's installation view.
+
image::pipeline_install1.png[width=800]

> 4. In the installation view some installation parameters can be tuned. Administrator can set the *Update{nbsp}channel* parameter to a specific version and the *Update{nbsp}approval* parameter to either *Automatic* or *Manual*. The *Installation{nbsp}mode* and the *Installed{nbsp}namespace* parameters are fixed.

Reviewer: For UI buttons or other elements, you can use the button macro https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/macros/ui-macros/#button-macro-syntax

+
image::pipeline_install2.png[width=800]
+

> Click on the **Install** button at the bottom of to view the to proceed with the installation. A window showing the installation progress will pop up.

Reviewer: Example of use of the button macro (you have to enable experimental mode for this to work).

```suggestion
Click on the btn:[Install] button at the bottom to proceed with the installation. A window showing the installation progress will pop up.
```

+ 
image::pipeline_install3.png[width=800]
+

> When the operator is installed you can view it's details by clicking on **View{nbsp}Operator** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the operator is installed you can view its details by clicking on **View{nbsp}Operator** button.
```

1. Login to Red Hat Openshift using a user which has the cluster-admin role assigned.

2. Navigate to **Operators** -> **OperatorHub** and seach for *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Data Science*.
+
image::rhods_install1.png[width=800]

3. Click on the Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Data Science operator and in the pop up window click on **Install** to open the operator's installation view.
+
image::rhods_install2.png[width=800]
 
4. In the installation view window choose the **Update Channel**, **Installed{nbsp}Namespace** and *Update approval** or accept default values and click on **Install* the button. The *Installation{nbsp}mode* parameter is fixed.
+ 
image::rhods_install3.png[width=800]
+
Operator Installation progress window will pup up. The installation may take a couple of minutes.
+
image::rhods_install4.png[width=800]
+
When the operator is installed open the applications window in the right upper corner and *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Data Science* dashboard should be available.
+
image::rhods_verify1.png[width=800]
+ 
When you click on the *Red{nbsp}Hat Openshift Data Science* dashboard button a login window should appear.
+

> image::rhods_verify2.png[width=800]

Reviewer 2: Mention the fact that they should log in as cluster administrator using OCP credentials to do this initial checking of install status
